.\" retroarch-joyconfig.1:

.TH  "RETROARCH-JOYCONFIG" "1" "October 1, 2011" "RETROARCH-JOYCONFIG" "System Manager's Manual: retroarch-joyconfig"

.SH NAME

retroarch-joyconfig \- Tool to configure joypad bindings for \fBretroarch\fR.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBretroarch-joyconfig\fR [OPTIONS]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBretroarch-joyconfig is a simple tool that allows updating or creating a configuration file for \fBretroarch\fR.
It reads in necessary joypad bindings for a certain player and joypad.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB--player PLAYER, -p PLAYER\fR
Configuration will be done for the SNES player PLAYER. This can be from 1 up to and including 5 (multitap).
Default is configuration for player 1.

.TP
\fB--joypad PAD, -j PAD\fR
Which joypad to use when configuring. Use a numeric indexing. Default here is 0 (first joypad).

.TP
\fB--input PATH, -i PATH\fR
Use config file found in PATH as a base. Old configuration values can be overwritten by new values when configuring binds. If not used, an empty config file will be used as a base. Using this option only does \fBnot\fR update the file found in PATH.

.TP
\fB--output PATH, -o PATH\fR
Writes the final config to a file, rather than \fBstdout\fR. If -i and -o point to the same file, the file found in PATH will simply be updated with the new configs.

.TP
\fB-a PATH, --autoconfig PATH\fR
Also writes an autoconfigure file for the joypad which was configured. It can be used by RetroArch to automatically configure a joypad when it's plugged in.

.TP
\fB--misc, -m\fR
Also configure some binds that aren't directly related to RetroPad, such as save states, RGUI menu toggle, etc.
Only configures some of the most useful binds.

.TP
\fB--allmisc, -M\fR
Same as --misc, but goes through every bind available (40+). Very exhaustive.

.TP
\fB-t SECONDS, --timeout SECONDS\fR
Adds a timeout of N seconds to each bind. If timed out, the bind will not be used.

.TP
\fB--help, -h\fR
Prints help message.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBretroarch\fR(1)

.\"
