.\" retroarch.1:

.TH  "RETROARCH" "1" "November 1, 2011" "RETROARCH" "System Manager's Manual: retroarch"

.SH NAME

retroarch \- A simple frontend for the libretro API.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBretroarch\fR [rom file] [OPTIONS]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBretroarch\fR is an emulator frontend for the libretro API.
libretro provides emulation of a game system, and can be implemented by any frontend.
\fBretroarch\fR focuses on exposing needed functionality for the game system through the use of command line and configuration files.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB[rom file]\fR
If no rom file path is defined on the command line, \fBretroarch\fR will try to load a rom from \fBstdin\fR.
\fBretroarch\fR use uncompressed ROMs, but can uncompress roms in the .zip/deflate format if support for it is compiled in.
ROM types supported depend on the libretro implementation used.

.TP
\fB--help, -h\fR
Prints help text.

.TP
\fB--features\fR
Prints available features compiled into RetroArch, then exits.

.TP
\fB-L PATH, --libretro PATH\fR
Path to a libretro implementation which is to be used.
This option will override any setting in a config file.
This option is only available if RetroArch is compiled with dynamic libretro loading.

If PATH is a directory, RetroArch will try to find the first implementation that claims to support
the extension of the ROM used, and use that libretro implementation.
If two or more different implementations claim to support a certain ROM extension, there might be collisions.

.TP
\fB--save PATH, -s PATH\fR
Overrides the path used for save ram (*.srm).
Without this flag, the save ram path will be inferred from the rom path name, and put in the same directory as the rom file with the extention replaced with '.srm'.
When rom is loaded from \fBstdin\fR, this flag is mandatory to define as no path can be inferred.
If PATH is a directory, RetroArch will treat this as the save file directory, where the save file name will be inferred from the rom name.
When loading a rom from stdin, the path must be a full path, however.

.TP
\fB--savestate PATH, -S PATH\fR
Overrides the path used for save states.
Without this flag, the save state path will be inferred from the rom path name, and put in the same directory as the rom file with the extention replace with '.state'.
When rom is loaded from \fBstdin\fR, this flag is mandatory to define as no path can be inferred.
If PATH is a directory, RetroArch will treat this as the save state directory, where the state file name will be inferred from the rom name.
When loading a rom from stdin, the path must be a full path, however.
Do note that save states are bound to the libretro implementation being used. Using a different libretro could invalidate the save state file.

.TP
\fB--fullscreen, -f\fR
Always starts RetroArch in fullscreen. Disregards settings in configuration file.

.TP
\fB--config PATH, -c PATH\fR
Sets the configuration file path. \fBretroarch\fR will use this path to load the configuration file.
Should this not be defined, \fBretroarch\fR will look in platform specific paths to attempt finding the config file.
/etc/retroarch.cfg (when installed), or retroarch.cfg in the source tarball serves as a skeleton configuration file.
If PATH is a directory, RetroArch will treat this as the config file directory, where the state file name will be inferred from the rom name (*.cfg).
When loading a rom from stdin, the path must be a full path, however.
If a config cannot be found when using directory path, the default config path will be used instead.

.IP
Unix-like systems will look in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/retroarch/retroarch.cfg first. Then it will try $HOME/.retroarch.cfg. Last, it will try /etc/retroarch.cfg. If no configuration is found, default settings will be assumed. A configuration file does not need to define every possible option, only those that should be overridden.

.IP
Windows will look in retroarch.cfg in same folder where retroarch.exe resides.

.TP
\fB--appendconfig PATH\fR
Appends a different set of config files to the config file loaded in -c (or default).
Multiple config files are delimited by ','.
Every config file will be appended in order where the key-value pairs of the next config file takes priority over the old ones.

.TP
\fB--gameboy PATH, -g PATH\fR
Path to a Nintendo Game Boy ROM. If this flag is set, the Super Game Boy subsystem will be activated. The Super Game Boy BIOS needs to be loaded as the normal rom.

.TP
\fB--bsx PATH, -b PATH\fR
Path to BS-X rom. Load BS-X BIOS as the regular rom.
When using BS-X, save ram paths will be inferred from the BS-X BIOS path, not BS-X rom path.

.TP
\fB--bsxslot PATH, -B PATH\fR
Path to BS-X slotted rom. Load BS-X BIOS as the regular rom.
When using BS-X, save ram paths will be inferred from the BS-X BIOS path, not BS-X rom path.

.TP
\fB--sufamiA PATH\fR
Path to A slot in Sufami Turbo. Load Sufami Turbo BIOS as regular rom.
When using Sufami, save ram paths will be inferred from the Sufami BIOS path, not slot paths.

.TP
\fB--sufamiB PATH\fR
Path to B slot in Sufami Turbo. Load Sufami Turbo BIOS as regular rom.
When using Sufami, save ram paths will be inferred from the Sufami BIOS path, not slot paths.

.TP
\fB--mouse PORT, -m PORT\fR
Connects a mouse into port number PORT. Possible values for PORT are 1 to 8.

.TP
\fB--nodevice PORT, -N PORT\fR
Disconnects an input device from port number PORT. Possible values for PORT are 1 to 8. This may be needed for some odd games to run properly.

.TP
\fB--scope, -p\fR
Connects a Super Scope into port 2 of an emulated SNES. It is controlled with your mouse.

.TP
\fB--justifier, -j\fR
Connects a Konami Justifier into port 2 of an emulated SNES. It is controlled with your mouse.

.TP
\fB--justifiers, -J\fR
Connects two Konami Justifier into port 2 of an emulated SNES. Currently, only player 1 is controlled with the mouse.

.TP
\fB--multitap, -4\fR
Connects a four-way multitap into an emulated SNES. This allows for up to 5 players.

.TP
\fB--dualanalog PORT, -A PORT\fR
Connects a DualAnalog controller into port PORT. Possible values are 1 to 8.

.TP
\fB--record PATH, -r PATH\fR
Activates video recording of gameplay into PATH. Using .mkv extension is recommended.
Codecs used are (FFV1 or H264 RGB lossless (x264))/FLAC, suitable for processing the material further.

.TP
\fB--recordconfig PATH\fR
Sets path to a config file for use during FFmpeg recording.

.TP
\fB--size WIDTHxHEIGHT\fR
Allows specifying the exact output width and height of FFmpeg recording. This option will override any configuration settings.
The video input is scaled with point filtering before being encoded at the correct size.

.TP
\fB--bsvplay PATH, -P PATH\fR
Play back a movie recorded in the .bsv format (bSNES). Cart ROM and movie file need to correspond.
It also requires to play back with the same libretro backend that was used for recording.

.TP
\fB--bsvrecord PATH, -R PATH\fR
Start recording a .bsv video to PATH immediately after startup.

.TP
\fB--sram-mode MODE, -M MODE\fR
MODE designates how to handle SRAM.
The format of the second parameter is {no,}load-{no,}save.
These two boolean values tell if SRAM loading and SRAM saving should take place.
Note that noload-save implies that the SRAM will be overwritten with new data.

.TP
\fB--verbose, -v\fR
Activates verbose logging.

.TP
\fB--host, -H\fR
Be the host of netplay. Waits until a player connects. The host will always assume player 1.

.TP
\fB--connect SERVER, -C SERVER\fR
Connect to a host of netplay. Will always assume player 2.

.TP
\fB--frames FRAMES, -F FRAMES\fR
Sync frames to use when using netplay. More frames allow for more latency, but requires more CPU power.
Set FRAMES to 0 to have perfect sync. 0 frames is only suitable for LAN. Defaults to 0.

.TP
\fB--port PORT\fR
Network port used for netplay. This defaults to 55435. This option affects both TCP and UDP.

.TP
\fB--spectate\fR
If netplay is used, it will go into a spectator mode.
Spectator mode allows one host to live stream game playback to multiple clients.
Essentially, clients receive a live streamed BSV movie file.
Clients can connect and disconnect at any time.
Clients thus cannot interact as player 2.
For spectating mode to work, both host and clients will need to use this flag.

.TP
\fB--command CMD\fR
Sends a command over UDP to an already running RetroArch application, and exit.
The command is formatted as "COMMAND:HOST:PORT".
HOST and PORT are both optional. "COMMAND:HOST" will set PORT to
"network_cmd_port" default setting.
If only "COMMAND" is used, HOST and PORT will be assumed to be "localhost" and "network_cmd_port" respectively.

The available commands are listed if "COMMAND" is invalid.

.TP
\fB--nick NICK\fR
Pick a nickname for use with netplay.
This is purely cosmetic, and only serves to help players identify each other.

.TP
\fB--ups PATCH, -U PATCH\fR
Attempts to apply an UPS patch to the current ROM image. No files are altered.
If this flag is not specified, RetroArch will look for a .ups file with same basename as ROM specified.

.TP
\fB--bps PATCH\fR
Attempts to apply a BPS patch to the current ROM image. No files are altered.
If this flag is not specified, RetroArch will look for a .bps file with same basename as ROM specified.

.TP
\fB--ips PATCH\fR
Attempts to apply a IPS patch to the current ROM image. No files are altered.
If this flag is not specified, RetroArch will look for a .ips file with same basename as ROM specified.
Note that RetroArch cannot perform any error checking if patching was successful due to how IPS works.

.TP
\fB--no-patch\fR
Disables all kinds of ROM patching.

.TP
\fB--xml MAP, -X MAP\fR
Specifies path to XML memory map for the given ROM.
If this flag is not specified, RetroArch will look for a .xml file with same basename as ROM specified.

.TP
\fB-D, --detach\fR
Detach from the current console. This is currently only relevant for Microsoft Windows.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBretroarch-joyconfig\fR(1)
